NEP 0413: Add `signMessage` method to Wallet Standard (#413)
near/NEPs: neps/nep-0413.md

### How to Return the Signed Message in a Safe Way
Sending the signature in a query string to an arbitrary URL (even within the correct domain) is not secure as the data can be leaked (e.g. through headers, etc). Using URL fragments instead will improve security, since the fragment isn't included in the Referrer.

### NEAR Signatures
NEAR transaction signatures are not plain Ed25519 signatures but Ed25519 signatures of a SHA-256 hash (see [near/nearcore#2835](https://github.com/near/nearcore/issues/2835)). Any protocol that signs anything with NEAR account keys should use the same signature format.

## Specification
Given the previous [rationales](#rationale-and-alternatives), this NEP proposes the wallets to implement a `verifyOwner` method following the specifications bellow.

### Goal
The `verifyOwner` method must take as input a `domain` and a `message`, and transform them into a signature.

### Input Interface
In order to sign a message, `verifyOwner` must implement the following input interface:

```jsx
interface VerifyOwnerParams {

>   domain: string; // The app in which the user wants to authenticate, e.g. myapp.com.

Reviewer: Is this the same message that is being sent by the entity requesting verification, or is the context added somewhere between the requester and the responder, i.e. by the wallet selector.

I think the requester shouldn't send this data because a bad implementation on the wallets side may use it to generate their hash rather than a domain they've actually verified.

Reviewer: Sounds good!

>   message: string; // A message to be included in the signature

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  nonce: [u8; 256] ; // A unique random nonce to be included in the signature
```

Reviewer 2: I would say `A nonce to be included in the signature`, since the wallet has no way to know if it is random or unique.

Reviewer 3: Why is the `message` being removed in favor of `nonce`? This greatly narrows the usecases the method can be used for. While this is often desired thing, not sure that the community will agree this time.

Having custom application defined `message` parameter allows the application to use the signature of the message as proof for ownership also of what is inside the contents of the `message`. 

### Example

The example application is "Web3 Messenger" and it is end-to-end encrypted messaging application for Web3 identities.

Alice wants to register to this application with her Web3 identity of `alice.near` so she can send and receive messages.

The application requires from the Web3 identities to provide `encryptionKey` that will be used to encrypt the messages that are send to them and proof of ownership that link the identity and the key.

Alice as owner of `alice.near`, is generating new messaging keypair consisting of `encryptionKey` (PublicKey) and `decryptionKey` (PrivateKey).

To register her `alice.near` Web3 identity and the corresponding `encryptionKey` to the application, the application requires from Alice to `verifyOwner` for `alice.near` with custom message of

```
"Me 'alice.near' want to receive messages via 'Web3 Messenger' encrypted with '0x123456789'"
```

Once this is signed, the application has verified that Alice owns the `alice.near` identity and also has approved the usage of the `0x123456789` as `encryptionKey` for this identity. This signature (proof) and `encryptionKey` is stored in the applications storage (registry).

When `bob.near` wants to send message to `alice.near`, lookup is made in the application to get `alice.near`'s `encryptionKey`, once found it is used to encrypt the sent message. Once `alice.near` receives the message, the secret `decryptionKey` is used to decrypt the message. 

If `bob.near` doesn't trust that the key is Alice's, he can reconstruct the whole signature payload and use the `alice.near`'s `publicKey` to verify the signature matches.

**Sorry for the long and maybe confusing example**, but simply put, having the ability to put custom message allows to verify the ownership of additional resources, not just the account ownership.

Reviewer 2: @toteto sending messages between the server and the user is out of the scope of this NEP. We want to `authenticate the user` and that's it.

In the case of the server and user wanted to talk, they can do it after the user has been authenticated through a secure channel that goes out of the scope of this NEP.

Reviewer 4: Hi @gagdiez thanks for drafting this proposal. I think there is some confusion with the `message` field name and the use cases of `messaging` @toteto  described. The core use case of signing `message`/`data` is for applications to later prove that the account owner signed it. This lets application developers build important features on top near accounts.

Only letting applications sign a `nonce` associated with a `domain` limits the use cases of signatures. Meaning issues like https://github.com/near/wallet-selector/issues/405 are not resolved as there is not `data` field.  Its likely developers will need to work around this by hashing their `data` and putting the hash in the `nonce`. This would be to the detriment of user experience and safety as they user would need to trust that the application hashed the value correctly.

I Suggest adding `data: string` or `data: Map<string, string> `field to the payload. We can also keep the `nonce` field. The `nonce` can be signed in isolation or used as an extra check to increment, expire, or add uniqueness to the `data` field.

_note: I discussed this response with @toteto before posting._

  callbackUrl?: string; // Optional, applicable to browser wallets (e.g. MyNearWallet). This is the callback url once the signing is approved/cancelled. Defaults to `window.location.href`.
}
```

### Structure and Signature
In order to respect all the points layed in [rationales](#rationale-and-alternatives), `verifyOwner` must:

1. Embed the passed `domain` and `message` into a predefined structure (see below).
2. Stringify the structure, respecting the attribute's order (see bellow).
2. Compute the `SHA256 hash` of the *stringified structure*.
3. Use a full-access key to sign the resulting `SHA256 hash`.

#### Structure
The structure must have the following interface:

```rust
struct Payload {

>   accountId: string; // The account name as plain text (e.g. "alice.near")

Reviewer: Why do we need the accountId and the public key? Surely just the public key is sufficient?
```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: Indeed, since the public key necessarily belongs to an account, signing a message with the accountId included is redundant.

  nonce: [u8; 32]; // The same nonce passed in `SignMessageParams.nonce`
}
```

### Signature
In order to create a signature, `signMessage` must:
1. Convert the `Payload` into its [JSON JCS](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8785) string representation (i.e. a JSON string, with alphabetically ordered attributes).
2. Prepend the `NEP0413:` string to the result from step 1.
3. Compute the `SHA256` hash of the result from step 2.
4. Sign the resulting `SHA256` hash from step 3 using a **full-access** key.

> If the wallet does not hold any `full-access` keys, then it must return an error.

### Example
Assuming that the `signMessage` method was invoked, and that:
- The input `message` is `"hi"`
- The input `receiver` is `"myapp.com"`
- The input `nonce` is `[0,...,31]`
- The wallet stores a full-access private key

The wallet must construct and sign the following `SHA256` hash:

```jsx
sha256.hash(`NEP0413:` + `{"message":"hi","receiver":"myapp.com","nonce":"[0,...,31]"}`)
```

### Output Interface
`signMessage` must return an object containing the **base64** representation of the `signature`, and all the data necessary to verify such signature. 

```jsx

> interface SignedMessage {

Reviewer 5: Should `SignedMessage` also include the un-signed string that was hashed and then signed, so that the caller can easily verify the signature is correct without needing to know the details of how to serialize the `SignMessageParams` into the `Payload` struct as JSON with the added prefix of `NEP0413:`?

Reviewer 2: We want to return the minimum and necessary to validate the signature. While it could be convenient to return the signed string, it is not strictly necessary since anyway the logic is well defined. Therefore it is better to not include it.

This is actually the case of Ethereum, where they also sign a `head:message`, and they return only the signature, without returning the actually signed string.

Reviewer 4: I'd suggest keeping in mind the separation of concerns principle. The `signMessage` function requires the `data` returns the `signature`. On the reverse `verify` requires the `signature` and `data` and returns the verification result. A separate function for example `createSignatureData` create the hash/message that will be signed/verified by the underlying private/public key. The `sign` and `verify` functions would call `createSignatureData`. Also developers can use `createSignatureData` if they wish to. I think this would represent a good balance between ease of use, access to the signing message and having `sign` return only what is needed.

Reviewer 2: Particular implementation can take this route if they decide, as the reference says what the input and output should be, not how the exact code must look like.

Reviewer 4: I agree with @gagdiez, my previous comment should be taken as a suggestion rather than part of the spec. I think it helps too imagine the implementation to show why returning the minimum is acceptable but should be anything more than that.

Reviewer 6: @gagdiez in the examples the [verifySignature](https://github.com/gagdiez/near-login/blob/main/authenticate/wallet-authenticate.js#L19) function requires the un-signed `message` to reconstruct the payload.

The value of the `message` in case of Browser Wallets that require redirect will be lost and when the user gets redirected back to the dApp.

How can we reconstruct the payload as in the above function in this case, or how can we verify the signature?

Reviewer 2: @kujtimprenkuSQA in this case, you will need to ask the user to pass the `message` that they signed.

  accountId: string; // The account name to which the publicKey corresponds as plain text (e.g. "alice.near")
  publicKey: string; // The public counterpart of the key used to sign, expressed as a string with format "<key-type>:<base-64-key-bytes>"
  signature: string; // The base64 representation of the signature.
}
```

### Returning the signature
#### Web Wallets
Web Wallets, such as [MyNearWallet](https://mynearwallet.com), should directly return the `SignedMessage` to the `SignMessageParams.callbackUrl`, passing both `accountId` and `publicKey` as strings, and the `signature` as an URL fragment. This is: `<callbackUrl>?accountId=<accountId>&publicKey=<publicKey>#signature=<signature>`.

If the signing process fails, then the wallet must return an error message as a string parameter: `<callbackUrl>?error=<error-message-string>`.

#### Other Wallets

> Non-web Wallets, such as [Ledger](https://www.ledger.com) can directly return the `SignMessageOut` (in preference as a JSON object) and raise an error on failure.

Reviewer 5: `SignMessageOut` -> `SignedMessage` ?

## References
A full example on how to implement the `signMessage` method can be [found here](https://github.com/gagdiez/near-login/blob/main/tests/authentication/auth.ava.ts#L27-#L65).

> ## Drawbacks

Reviewer 5: Currently, NEAR ledger app will be unable to sign these messages without an update to make it aware of this format -- as it is currently written it only works with pure transactions

Reviewer 2: Added it as a drawback.

`signMessage` must embed the input `message`, `receiver` and `nonce` into the following predefined structure:

```rust
struct Payload {
  message: string; // The same message passed in `SignMessageParams.message`
  receiver: string; // The same receiver passed in `SignMessageParams.receiver`
  nonce: [u8; 32]; // The same nonce passed in `SignMessageParams.nonce`
}
```

### Signature
In order to create a signature, `signMessage` must:
1. Convert the `Payload` into its [JSON JCS](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8785) string representation (i.e. a JSON string, with alphabetically ordered attributes).
2. Prepend the `NEP0413:` string to the result from step 1.
3. Compute the `SHA256` hash of the result from step 2.
4. Sign the resulting `SHA256` hash from step 3 using a **full-access** key.

> If the wallet does not hold any `full-access` keys, then it must return an error.

### Example
Assuming that the `signMessage` method was invoked, and that:
- The input `message` is `"hi"`
- The input `receiver` is `"myapp.com"`
- The input `nonce` is `[0,...,31]`
- The wallet stores a full-access private key

The wallet must construct and sign the following `SHA256` hash:

```jsx

> sha256.hash(`NEP0413:` + `{"message":"hi","receiver":"myapp.com","nonce":"[0,...,31]"}`)

Reviewer 7: I believe the keys should be sorted alphabetically and the nonce should be an array without quotes.

```
sha256.hash(`NEP0413:` + `{"message":"hi","nonce":[0,...,31],"receiver":"myapp.com"}`)
```

Reviewer 2: Indeed, the keys must be sorted, as the NEP currently specifies: "(i.e. a JSON string, with alphabetically ordered attributes)".

I'll fix the quotes around the array, those are a mistake in the example. Thanks for spoting it!

Reviewer 7: @gagdiez can you also move the `nonce` attribute before `receiver` so that the keys are sorted (as per my snippet above)?

Reviewer 2: Fixed, thank you!

```

### Output Interface
`signMessage` must return an object containing the **base64** representation of the `signature`, and all the data necessary to verify such signature. 

```jsx
interface SignedMessage {
  accountId: string; // The account name to which the publicKey corresponds as plain text (e.g. "alice.near")
  publicKey: string; // The public counterpart of the key used to sign, expressed as a string with format "<key-type>:<base-64-key-bytes>"

>   signature: string; // The base64 representation of the signature.

Reviewer 8: I believe it is just a typo here regarding base64 encoding for publicKey and signature as they are commonly base58-encoded in NEAR Protocol. I assume it is a typo as the prior discussion (https://github.com/near/NEPs/pull/413#discussion_r1021799176) referenced base58 examples.

NOTE: In NEAR Protocol, base58 encoding is commonly used to display and sometimes store public/private keys, signatures, and hashes. And even though there was an old discussion about migrating away from it (https://github.com/near/nearcore/issues/2100), there was no action taken. Yet, base64 is used for arbitrary-length values (e.g. function args, return values, etc).

Reviewer 2: Interesting, this might be my misunderstanding actually, when looking at this key:

```ed25519:6TupyNrcHGTt5XRLmHTc2KGaiSbjhQi1KHtCXTgbcr4Y```

the second part (i.e. `6TupyNrcHGTt5XRLmHTc2KGaiSbjhQi1KHtCXTgbcr4Y`) is encoded using base58?

Reviewer 8: Yes, that is correct, that value is base58-encoded.

[Here is the reference to nearcore implementation](https://github.com/near/nearcore/blob/db094eee0f325d1c28b5da342e0bbc7964290544/core/crypto/src/signature.rs#L180-L188) where you can see that the `key_data` (32 bytes) are Bs58-encoded.

2. Compute the `SHA256 hash` of the *stringified structure*.
3. Use a full-access key to sign the resulting `SHA256 hash`.

#### Structure
The structure must have the following interface:

```rust
struct Payload {
  accountId: string; // Mandatory: the account name as plain text (e.g. "alice.near")
  message: string; // The same message passed in `VerifyOwnerParams.message` 
  blockId: string; // The hash of a block created close to the time of signature
  publicKey: string; // public counterpart of the key used to sign, encoded as a string with format "<key-type>:<base-64-key-bytes>"
}
```

#### Signature
In order to create a signature, the `Payload` must be converted into its `string` representation (respecting the attribute's order given above), and then hashed using `SHA256`.

For example, assuming that:
1. `alice.near` wants to sign the message `"berryclub.io"`.
2. The wallet stores a private key which public counterpart is: `ed25519:6TupyNrcHGTt5XRLmHTc2KGaiSbjhQi1KHtCXTgbcr4Y`
3. A recent block was produced with the block hash `12FaoFyjYGmuxXnvWGYqxvUqGesSjdFVBNWXkXvoj41M`.

The wallet should sign the **`SHA256` hash** of the following string:

```jsx

> sha256.hash(`{"accountId":"alice.near","message":"berryclub.io","blockId":"12FaoFyjYGmuxXnvWGYqxvUqGesSjdFVBNWXkXvoj41M","publicKey":"ed25519:6TupyNrcHGTt5XRLmHTc2KGaiSbjhQi1KHtCXTgbcr4Y"}`)

Reviewer: We need to specify that the hash is of a [JCS JSON](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8785) string otherwise different implementations will come up with different hashes

Reviewer 2: The first paragraph before states it, but it is never bad to repeat it, I'll add it.

```

### Output Interface
`verifyOwner` must return a object containing the **base64** representation of the `signature`, and all the data necessary to verify such signature. 

```jsx
interface AuthenticationToken {
  accountId: string; // The account name as plain text (e.g. "alice.near")
  message: string; // The same message passed in `VerifyOwnerParams.message` 
  blockId: string; // The hash of a block created close to the time of signature

>   publicKey: string; // The public counterpart of the key used to sign, expressed as a string with format "<key-type>:<base-64-key-bytes>"

Reviewer: Shouldn't all of these be known to the service asking for the attestation?

By returning all of this information, you're making it more likely that an implementation will select this data rather than the data that they already own.

Reviewer 2: In the current proposal, the service asking for verification only knows about the `challenge` for the user. This is because the user can call `wallet.verifyOwner()`, and then choose which account to use (since a wallet can store multiple accounts).

This could be changed, forcing the user to first commit to a specific `accountId` + `publicKey` at the cost of making the implementation a bit more complex.

If the user cancels the signature, or the signature fails the wallet must return an error message. For Web Wallets this can be done by returning an error string parameter: `<callbackUrl>?error=<error-message-string>`.

Non-web Wallets, such as [Ledger](https://www.ledger.com), can directly return the `AuthenticationToken`, in preference as a JSON object, and raise an error on failure.

### Verifying the Signature
To authenticate a user via the `AuthenticationToken` there are 5 steps that you need to perform:
1. Make sure the `AuthenticationToken.message` is exactly the one you asked the user to sign.
2. Verify that the `AuthenticationToken.publicKey` belongs to the `AuthenticationToken.accountId`.
3. Reconstruct the `Payload` locally
4. Use the `AuthenticationToken.publicKey` to verify that the reconstructed `Payload` matches the `AuthenticationToken.signature`.

> 5. (Optionally) Make sure that the signature is recent by using the `timestamp` of the block with hash `AuthenticationToken.blockId`.

Reviewer: What does this achieve?

Sending the signature in a query string to an arbitrary URL (even within the correct domain) is not secure as the data can be leaked (e.g. through headers, etc). Using URL fragments instead will improve security, since the fragment isn't included in the Referrer. Further constraining the callback URL to a fixed value will improve security even more.

### NEAR Signatures
NEAR transaction signatures are not plain Ed25519 signatures but Ed25519 signatures of a SHA-256 hash (see [near/nearcore#2835](https://github.com/near/nearcore/issues/2835)). Any protocol that signs anything with NEAR account keys should use the same signature format.

## Specification
Given the previous [rationales](#rationale-and-alternatives), this NEP proposes the wallets to implement a `verifyOwner` method following the specifications bellow.

### Goal
The `verifyOwner` method must take a plain text `message` and transform it into a signature.

### Input Interface
In order to sign a message, `verifyOwner` must implement the following input interface:

```jsx
interface VerifyOwnerParams {
  message: string; // The message requested to be signed, should contain the app name.

>   callbackUrl?: string; // Applicable to browser wallets (e.g. MyNearWallet). This is the callback url once the signing is approved. Defaults to `window.location.href`.

Reviewer 3: One final thing that got my attention. This `callbackUrl` is to be used to get the result. What and how would the parameters look in failed (example: denied) verifying of ownership?

For this case the callback URLs for the sign transaction method have success and failure callback URLs. Maybe we can do the same here.

Or, we can add parameter of `errorCode` as parameter for failure to verify owner.

Reviewer 2: I see that the current implementation returns `<callbackUrl>?error=<error-message-string>`, maybe we could keep that? what do you think @toteto

Reviewer 3: That would work and if that is already how errors are handled by the other methods, I am OK with it since it will be more familiar for the developers.

However, think preferable solution instead of error-mesaage is to include error code since it is bit easier for erroe handling (no need to do weird string comparisons) and also easier for localization. Something like `<callbackUrl>?error=<error-code-string>`, example `<callbackUrl>?error=user-denied`

}
```

### Structure and Signature
In order to respect all the points layed in [rationales](#rationale-and-alternatives), `verifyOwner` must:

1. Embed the passed `message` into a predefined structure (see below).
2. Stringify the structure 
2. Compute the `SHA256 hash` of the *stringified structure*.
3. Use a full-access key to sign the resulting `SHA256 hash`.

#### Structure
The structure must have the following interface:

```rust
struct Payload {
  accountId: string; // Mandatory: the account name as plain text (e.g. "alice.near")
  message: string; // The same message passed in `VerifyOwnerParams.message` 
  blockId: string; // The hash of a block created close to the time of signature
  publicKey: string; // public counterpart of the key used to sign, encoded as a base64 string (see bellow)
}
```

#### Signature
In order to create a signature, the `Payload` must be converted into its `string` representation (respecting the attribute's order given above), and then hashed using `SHA256`.

For example, assuming that:
1. `alice.near` wants to sign the message `"berryclub.io"`.

> 2. The wallet stores a private key which public counterpart is: `ed25519:6TupyNrcHGTt5XRLmHTc2KGaiSbjhQi1KHtCXTgbcr4Y`, which in base64 is: `ZWQyNTUxOTo2VHVweU5yY0hHVHQ1WFJMbUhUYzJLR2FpU2JqaFFpMUtIdENYVGdiY3I0WQ==`

Reviewer 3: Don't see the point in additional base64 encoding of the PublicKey representation of `ed25519:6TupyNrcHGTt5XRLmHTc2KGaiSbjhQi1KHtCXTgbcr4Y`.

To achieve this the **wallet** would to double base64 encode the public key and once:

```js
const publicKeyStr = publicKey.toString() // ed25519:6TupyNrcHGTt5XRLmHTc2KGaiSbjhQi1KHtCXTgbcr4Y 
const publiucKeyStrBytes = decodeUtf8(publicKeyStr); // [12, 13, 133, 137, ...] 
const verifyOwnerPublicKey = encodeBase64(publiucKeyStrBytes); // ZWQyNTUxOTo2VHVweU5yY0hHVHQ1WFJMbUhUYzJLR2FpU2JqaFFpMUtIdENYVGdiY3I0WQ==
```

While the application would need to perform also redundant decoding

```ts
const result = await wallet.verifyOwner(...); 

const verifyOwnerPublicKey = result.publicKey // ZWQyNTUxOTo2VHVweU5yY0hHVHQ1WFJMbUhUYzJLR2FpU2JqaFFpMUtIdENYVGdiY3I0WQ==
const publiucKeyStrBytes = decodeBase64(result.publicKey); // [12, 13, 133, 137, ...]
const publicKeyStr = encodeUtf8(publiucKeyStrBytes) // ed25519:6TupyNrcHGTt5XRLmHTc2KGaiSbjhQi1KHtCXTgbcr4Y 
const publicKey = PublicKey.fromString(publicKeyStr)
```

Instead of all this, propose that the encoding remains to the native Near representation of `"ed25519:6TupyNrcHGTt5XRLmHTc2KGaiSbjhQi1KHtCXTgbcr4Y"`.

This is also how the keys are encoded in the `account.getAccessKeys()`, it will be easier to perform verification of the validity of the public key.

Reviewer 2: Can we be sure that **all** keys (assuming new ones are added) will have a string format that can be encoded in simple text? Because using `base64` we **ensure** that any key can be sent back as an URL parameter.

I honestly don't know how standardized are key-formats, for which I was assuming there might be some that have "weird" characters.

Reviewer 3: @gagdiez 
> Can we be sure that all keys (assuming new ones are added) will have a string format that can be encoded in simple text? Because using base64 we ensure that any key can be sent back as an URL parameter.

Yup, we can be sure. Every key can be represented by the key type (curve) and the bytes (parameters) that are used for that key. Since bytes will be encoded into `base64` we are sure that it is safe to be put into URL parameter. Just the `:` colon character would need to be encoded (`encodeURIComponent(publicKey.toString()`) when this is returned by URL param.

> I honestly don't know how standardized are key-formats, for which I was assuming there might be some that have "weird" characters.

- From the sign-in response from MyNearWallet I get the following parameters 
  - account_id=tote.testnet
  - all_keys=ed25519%3A4uAW6WoYKVLzvaVwniBMPUujSxJi7fVDs5bVFjb3j
- It is how the `PublicKey.toString()` exports with: https://github.com/near/near-api-js/blob/96785cb/packages/near-api-js/src/utils/key_pair.ts#L56-L58)
- The response from `view_access_key_list` is resolving like that: https://docs.near.org/api/rpc/access-keys#view-access-key-list 
- It is how it is stored also: https://github.com/near/NEPs/blob/17af66e32a83e0bfea4e8110b59902daf09e7ab4/specs/GenesisConfig/StateRecord.md#public_key

Not sure if there is formal proposal for the key-format, but seems that `<key-type>:<base-64-key-bytes>` is the format that is widely accepted.

Author: I'm in favour of using the public string directly as it appears consistent with existing implementations.

Reviewer 9: > Not sure if there is formal proposal for the key-format, but seems that `<key-type>:<base-64-key-bytes>` is the format that is widely accepted.

Yep- think if this is the standard, and its the same as what is in the response for `view_access_key_list` - this would be the best way forward. Especially seeing that the key is already base64 encoded.

3. A recent block was produced with the block hash `12FaoFyjYGmuxXnvWGYqxvUqGesSjdFVBNWXkXvoj41M`.

The wallet should sign the **`SHA256` hash** of the following string:

```jsx
sha256.hash(`{"accountId":"alice.near","message":"berryclub.io","blockId":"12FaoFyjYGmuxXnvWGYqxvUqGesSjdFVBNWXkXvoj41M","publicKey":"ed25519:6TupyNrcHGTt5XRLmHTc2KGaiSbjhQi1KHtCXTgbcr4Y"}`)
```

### Output Interface
`verifyOwner` must return a object containing the **base64** representation of the `signature`, and all the data necessary to verify such signature. 

```jsx
interface AuthenticationToken {
  accountId: string; // The account name as plain text (e.g. "alice.near")
  message: string; // The same message passed in `VerifyOwnerParams.message` 
  blockId: string; // The hash of a block created close to the time of signature
  publicKey: string; // The public counterpart of the key used to sign, expressed as a string with format "<key-type>:<base-64-key-bytes>"
  signature: string; // The base64 representation of the signature.
}
```

### Returning the signature

> Web Wallets, such as [MyNearWallet](https://mynearwallet.com), should directly return the `AuthenticationToken` to the `VerifyOwnerParams.callbackUrl`, passing each attribute as a URL fragment. For example: `<callbackUrl>?accountId=<accountId>&message=<message>...`.

Reviewer 10: The suggestion is to use fragments but the example uses query string parameters. I'm assuming at a minimum we want the `signature` behind a `#` but the rest are probably OK, e.g.
```
<callbackUrl>?accountId=<accountId>&message=<message>...#<signature>
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed, thanks!

## Motivation
NEAR users want to create messages destined to a specific recipient using their accounts. This has multiple applications, one of them being authentication in third-party services.

Currently, there is no standardized way for wallets to sign a message destined to a specific recipient.

## Rationale and Alternatives
Users want to sign messages for a specific recipient without incurring in GAS fees, nor compromising their account's security. This means that the message being signed:

1) Must be signed off-chain, with no transactions being involved.
2) Must include the recipient's name and a nonce.
3) Cannot represent a valid transaction.
3) Must be signed using a Full Access Key.
4) Should be simple to produce/verify, and transmitted securely.

### Why Off-Chain?
So the user would not incur in GAS fees, nor the signed message gets broadcasted into a public network.

### Why The Message MUST NOT be a Transaction? How To Ensure This?
An attacker could make the user inadvertently sign a valid transaction which, once signed, could be submitted into the network to execute it.

#### How to Ensure the Message is not a Transaction

> In NEAR, transactions are encoded in Borsh before being signed. The first attribute of a transaction is a `signerId: string`, which is encoded as: (1) 32 bytes representing the string's length, (2) N bytes representing the string itself.

Reviewer 8: Good catch! I believe the author meant "32 bits" which is, indeed, "4 bytes".

> By prepending the string `"NEP0413:"` we can ensure that the whole message is an invalid transaction. This is because `"NEP0413:"` is `[78, 69, 80, 48]` in bytes, which borsh interprets as `810566990`. When parsing this as a transaction, Borsh will then try to read `810566990` chars (~810Mb of data) which, even if present, would represent an invalid account (accounts have less than 64 chars).

Reviewer 2: @abacabadabacaba and besides that, creating an NEP for a new 4byte marker when signing messages

> By prepending the string `"NEP0413:"` we can ensure that the whole message is an invalid transaction. This is because `"NEP0413:"` is `[78, 69, 80, 48]` in bytes, which borsh interprets as `810566990`. When parsing this as a transaction, Borsh will then try to read `810566990` chars (~810Mb of data) which, even if present, would represent an invalid account (accounts have less than 64 chars).

Reviewer 11: If this proposed tag is borsh serialized then wouldn't we need the string that would serialize to a prepended tag of `9d010080` ( $2^{31}$ + 413 ) as opposed to serializing `9d010080` and getting some other borsh value? Also does this still satisfy the initial condition of being an invalid transaction? 

How likely is it that protocol team will implement this tag proposal as a standard to distinguish between message types? If this is likely then I agree we should have this message string serialize to having a prepended tag of `9d010080` in borsh provided it's still an invalid transaction for now until the standard is implemented which can be done async and which we would have forward compatibility for. I'll look into how we construct a string that always serializes to a buffer starting with `\x9d\x01\x00\x80` in borsh if you agree.

> By prepending the string `"NEP0413:"` we can ensure that the whole message is an invalid transaction. This is because `"NEP0413:"` is `[78, 69, 80, 48]` in bytes, which borsh interprets as `810566990`. When parsing this as a transaction, Borsh will then try to read `810566990` chars (~810Mb of data) which, even if present, would represent an invalid account (accounts have less than 64 chars).

Reviewer 12: @esaminu The idea is that the serialization begins with the bytes 0x9d, 0x01, 0x00, 0x80. This is not a valid Borsh serialization of a string, but it is a valid serialization of `u32` value `0x8000019d`. For a string to serialize to a value beginning with 0x9d, 0x01, 0x00, 0x80, it needs to be 2147484061 bytes long, which is not practical.

Currently I consider it likely than the protocol team will accept this tag proposal.

> By prepending the string `"NEP0413:"` we can ensure that the whole message is an invalid transaction. This is because `"NEP0413:"` is `[78, 69, 80, 48]` in bytes, which borsh interprets as `810566990`. When parsing this as a transaction, Borsh will then try to read `810566990` chars (~810Mb of data) which, even if present, would represent an invalid account (accounts have less than 64 chars).

Reviewer 2: changed the NEP to a tag proposal and borsh serialisation

### NEAR Signatures
NEAR transaction signatures are not plain Ed25519 signatures but Ed25519 signatures of a SHA-256 hash (see [near/nearcore#2835](https://github.com/near/nearcore/issues/2835)). Any protocol that signs anything with NEAR account keys should use the same signature format.

## Specification
Wallets must implement a `signMessage` method, which takes a `message` destined to a specific `recipient` and transform it into a verifiable signature.

### Input Interface
`signMessage` must implement the following input interface:

```jsx
interface SignMessageParams {
  message: string ; // The message that wants to be transmitted.
  recipient: string; // The recipient to whom the message is destined (e.g. "alice.near" or "myapp.com").
  nonce: [u8; 32] ; // A nonce that uniquely identifies this instance of the message, denoted as a 32 bytes array (a fixed `Buffer` in JS/TS).
  callbackUrl?: string; // Optional, applicable to browser wallets (e.g. MyNearWallet). The URL to call after the signing process. Defaults to `window.location.href`.

> }

Reviewer 2: @abacabadabacaba if you go through the +100 messages above you will see that the NEP is a result of what the community wanted: a way to sign a string message for a specific receiver (e.g. "anna.near", "myweb.com", or "aunt Mary"). Since some people wanted to use this as a way of login-while-passing-data (see the discussion), a `nonce` was added, so the same message for the same receiver could not be used twice. 

While I understand the convenience of having two methods separated, this is not what the community was asking for. If there is no major drawbacks, I would suggest to keep it like this.

If this is a major drawback, please make a PR with the suggested changes so I can review it and maybe we can create another NEP together.

> }

Reviewer 11: Until we get more details on why `recipient`, `nonce` and `callbackUrl` are not needed for authenticating a human-readable message for another person the only action item I see here is to elaborate on the role of the `recipient` field perhaps providing some examples as well.

I agree that it's preferable to have a more flexible standard that can be adapted to both use cases if there are no major security vulnerabilities that implementors of this standard are likely to face.

```

### Structure
`signMessage` must embed the input `message`, `recipient` and `nonce` into the following predefined structure:

```rust
struct Payload {
  message: string; // The same message passed in `SignMessageParams.message`
  nonce: [u8; 32]; // The same nonce passed in `SignMessageParams.nonce`
  recipient: string; // The same recipient passed in `SignMessageParams.recipient`
}
```

### Signature
In order to create a signature, `signMessage` must:

> 1. Convert the `Payload` into its [JSON JCS](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8785) string representation (i.e. a JSON string, with alphabetically ordered attributes).

Reviewer 2: `JSON` is a 30 years old standard, widely adapted and readily available in a multitude of languages natively. Meanwhile, `Borsh` is a new standard, not widely adopted, and thus not being shipped natively in common languages. I see `borsh` as an `additional dependency`.

> 1. Convert the `Payload` into its [JSON JCS](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8785) string representation (i.e. a JSON string, with alphabetically ordered attributes).

Reviewer 11: While JSON is more prominent, using borsh will allow us to more easily avoid conflicts with protocol messages and adhere to protocol message standards as pointed out in https://github.com/near/NEPs/pull/413#discussion_r1092135057. As long as we can serialize to a borsh message that adheres to the proposed prepended tag standard we should be fine here though and given we do that I still lean towards JSON due to human readability and ease of implementation for wallets

> 1. Convert the `Payload` into its [JSON JCS](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8785) string representation (i.e. a JSON string, with alphabetically ordered attributes).

Reviewer 2: We now ask to use borsh

4. Sign the resulting `SHA256` hash from step 3 using a **full-access** key.

> If the wallet does not hold any `full-access` keys, then it must return an error.

### Example
Assuming that the `signMessage` method was invoked, and that:
- The input `message` is `"hi"`
- The input `nonce` is `[0,...,31]`
- The input `recipient` is `"myapp.com"`
- The wallet stores a full-access private key

The wallet must construct and sign the following `SHA256` hash:

```jsx
sha256.hash(`NEP0413:` + `{"message":"hi","nonce":[0,...,31],"recipient":"myapp.com"}`)
```

### Output Interface
`signMessage` must return an object containing the **base64** representation of the `signature`, and all the data necessary to verify such signature. 

```jsx
interface SignedMessage {
  accountId: string; // The account name to which the publicKey corresponds as plain text (e.g. "alice.near")
  publicKey: string; // The public counterpart of the key used to sign, expressed as a string with format "<key-type>:<base58-key-bytes>" (e.g. "ed25519:6TupyNrcHGTt5XRLmHTc2KGaiSbjhQi1KHtCXTgbcr4Y") 
  signature: string; // The base64 representation of the signature.
}
```

### Returning the signature
#### Web Wallets

> Web Wallets, such as [MyNearWallet](https://mynearwallet.com), should directly return the `SignedMessage` to the `SignMessageParams.callbackUrl`, passing both `accountId` and `publicKey` as strings, and the `signature` as an URL fragment. This is: `<callbackUrl>?accountId=<accountId>&publicKey=<publicKey>#signature=<signature>`.

Reviewer 2: @abacabadabacaba could you elaborate in the `state` parameter? A PR with its addition is greatly appreciated.

> Web Wallets, such as [MyNearWallet](https://mynearwallet.com), should directly return the `SignedMessage` to the `SignMessageParams.callbackUrl`, passing both `accountId` and `publicKey` as strings, and the `signature` as an URL fragment. This is: `<callbackUrl>?accountId=<accountId>&publicKey=<publicKey>#signature=<signature>`.

Reviewer 2: All parameters are now returned as fragments

### Input Interface
`signMessage` must implement the following input interface:

```jsx
interface SignMessageParams {
  message: string ; // The message that wants to be transmitted.
  recipient: string; // The recipient to whom the message is destined (e.g. "alice.near" or "myapp.com").
  nonce: [u8; 32] ; // A nonce that uniquely identifies this instance of the message, denoted as a 32 bytes array (a fixed `Buffer` in JS/TS).
  callbackUrl?: string; // Optional, applicable to browser wallets (e.g. MyNearWallet). The URL to call after the signing process. Defaults to `window.location.href`.
}
```

### Structure
`signMessage` must embed the input `message`, `recipient` and `nonce` into the following predefined structure:

```rust
struct Payload {
  tag: u32 = 2147484061 // A fixed prefix tag (NEP461), always 2147484061
  message: string; // The same message passed in `SignMessageParams.message`
  nonce: [u8; 32]; // The same nonce passed in `SignMessageParams.nonce`
  recipient: string; // The same recipient passed in `SignMessageParams.recipient`

>   callbackUrl?: string // The same callbackUrl passed in `SignMessageParams.message`

Reviewer 7: It looks like there is a typo here.

```suggestion
  callbackUrl?: string // The same callbackUrl passed in `SignMessageParams.callbackUrl`
```

Currently, there is no standardized way for wallets to sign a message destined to a specific recipient.

## Rationale and Alternatives
Users want to sign messages for a specific recipient without incurring in GAS fees, nor compromising their account's security. This means that the message being signed:

1) Must be signed off-chain, with no transactions being involved.
2) Must include the recipient's name and a nonce.
3) Cannot represent a valid transaction.
3) Must be signed using a Full Access Key.
4) Should be simple to produce/verify, and transmitted securely.

### Why Off-Chain?
So the user would not incur in GAS fees, nor the signed message gets broadcasted into a public network.

### Why The Message MUST NOT be a Transaction? How To Ensure This?
An attacker could make the user inadvertently sign a valid transaction which, once signed, could be submitted into the network to execute it.

#### How to Ensure the Message is not a Transaction
In NEAR, transactions are encoded in Borsh before being signed. The first attribute of a transaction is a `signerId: string`, which is encoded as: (1) 4 bytes representing the string's length, (2) N bytes representing the string itself.

> By prepending the prefix tag $2^{31} + 413$ we can both ensure that (1) the whole message is an invalid transaction (since the string would be too long to parse), (2) this NEP is ready for a potential future protocol update, in which non-consensus messages are tagged using $2^{31}$ + NEP-number.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
By prepending the prefix tag $2^{31} + 413$ we can both ensure that (1) the whole message is an invalid transaction (since the string would be too long to be a valid signer account id), (2) this NEP is ready for a potential future protocol update, in which non-consensus messages are tagged using $2^{31}$ + NEP-number.
```

```jsx
// 2**31 + 413 == 2147484061
sha256.hash(Borsh.serialize<u32>(2147484061) + Borsh.serialize(Payload{message:"hi", nonce:[0,...,31], recipient:"myapp.com", callbackUrl: "myapp.com/callback"}))
```

### Output Interface
`signMessage` must return an object containing the **base64** representation of the `signature`, and all the data necessary to verify such signature. 

```jsx
interface SignedMessage {
  accountId: string; // The account name to which the publicKey corresponds as plain text (e.g. "alice.near")
  publicKey: string; // The public counterpart of the key used to sign, expressed as a string with format "<key-type>:<base58-key-bytes>" (e.g. "ed25519:6TupyNrcHGTt5XRLmHTc2KGaiSbjhQi1KHtCXTgbcr4Y") 
  signature: string; // The base64 representation of the signature.
}
```

### Returning the signature
#### Web Wallets
Web Wallets, such as [MyNearWallet](https://mynearwallet.com), should directly return the `SignedMessage` to the `SignMessageParams.callbackUrl`, passing the `accountId`,`publicKey`, and the `signature` as URL fragments. This is: `<callbackUrl>#accountId=<accountId>&publicKey=<publicKey>&signature=<signature>`.

> If the signing process fails, then the wallet must return an error message as a string parameter: `<callbackUrl>?error=<error-message-string>`.

Reviewer 2: fixed, thanks

  publicKey: string; // The public counterpart of the key used to sign, expressed as a string with format "<key-type>:<base58-key-bytes>" (e.g. "ed25519:6TupyNrcHGTt5XRLmHTc2KGaiSbjhQi1KHtCXTgbcr4Y") 
  signature: string; // The base64 representation of the signature.
  state?: string; // Optional, applicable to browser wallets (e.g. MyNearWallet). The same state passed in SignMessageParams.
}
```

### Returning the signature
#### Web Wallets
Web Wallets, such as [MyNearWallet](https://mynearwallet.com), should directly return the `SignedMessage` to the `SignMessageParams.callbackUrl`, passing the `accountId`,`publicKey`, `signature` and the state as URL fragments. This is: `<callbackUrl>#accountId=<accountId>&publicKey=<publicKey>&signature=<signature>&state=<state>`.

If the signing process fails, then the wallet must return an error message and the state as string fragments: `<callbackUrl>#error=<error-message-string>&state=<state>`.

#### Other Wallets
Non-web Wallets, such as [Ledger](https://www.ledger.com) can directly return the `SignedMessage` (in preference as a JSON object) and raise an error on failure.

## References

> A full example on how to implement the `signMessage` method can be [found here](https://github.com/gagdiez/near-login/blob/main/tests/authentication/auth.ava.ts#L27-#L65).

Reviewer 6: @gagdiez is there any way/example on how to verify the signature for browser wallets?

The [verifySignature ](https://github.com/gagdiez/near-login/blob/main/authenticate/wallet-authenticate.js#L19) function in the example needs the `message`, `nonce`, `recipient` and `callbackUrl` to re-construct the payload which was actually signed but we lose all this data on redirect?

What we get back in the URL is only the `SignedMessage`.

Reviewer 2: with the current approach, you will need the user to pass it back to you. If you are implementing an app in which the user is asked to sign something, then you will need to persist somewhere the parameters, redirect the user to the wallet, get the signature, and relay it alongside the rest of the params

## Rationale and alternatives

A possible solution here is to introduce a restricted access key that is only allowed to call a nonexistent function on the owner's account(this will prevent exploitation as anything signed by this key will not execute on-chain). This access key would be used for all requests of this type hence eliminating the need to have a new access key created each time an app author wants the user to verify their ownership of an account or for each app author who does so.

###  The problem with a restricted access key

Originally, NEAR was designed with the assumption that access keys are only used to sign transactions. Therefore, if those keys are used for any other purpose, it is important to make sure that they can't be abused to sign some undesirable transaction.

When using the keys for authentication, another issue that needs to be handled is a replay attack: a malicious app might request the user to authenticate only to authenticate itself to some other app as the user.

If the wallet allows apps to request the user to sign arbitrary data, both attacks would be possible. Thus, some measures are needed to prevent both attacks:

> 1. To prevent the malicious signing of transactions, a good solution is to make sure that the data to be signed cannot be parsed as a transaction. This is preferred to having a properly formatted transaction with invalid data (such as an invalid method). The precise format of that data should be made a standard, so that, for example, a future change to transaction format will not make it possible to confuse the data for a transaction.

Reviewer 10: I'm not entirely clear on what's being suggested here. Is the intention to enforce a format for the signed `message` or to standardize the format(s?) of transactions written to chain so that we can reject data that fits this format?

If it's the latter do we have to consider non-JSON (e.g. binary) formats?

Author: It is to enforce a format for the signed message that isn't structured like a transaction would. The previous suggestion was to structure it like a transaction but calling an invalid method.

2. To prevent one app from relaying a signature to a different app, the data to be signed should include the requesting app's identity (e.g. domain name). Again, a well-defined format will facilitate this.

> Using an access key restricted in such a way that it cannot send transactions looks like a good temporary solution. It doesn't solve the second problem, though.

Reviewer 10: Can you elaborate on this a bit please? I'm not totally following the significance of this; maybe you can go into how this solution would work, what it would ideally be replaced with, and why it doesn't address the second problem?

Reviewer 2: 1) You don't want the message to be a valid transaction, so a malicious actor cannot tell you "hey, please sign this message to log-in into my app", and make you sign a transaction that they can then forward to the network, thus executing it.
2) You want to explicitly say in which app you will login, so all the wallets can make a big sign saying "hey, you will login into <<www.this-app.com>>".

> Sending the signature in a query string to an arbitrary URL (even within the correct domain) is not secure. Most apps will have some pages that will leak this data in the Referrer header or by some other means. Using URL fragment instead of a query string will improve this (the fragment isn't included in the Referrer), and somehow permitting only a fixed callback URL will improve this even more.

Reviewer 10: The second sentence is making some assumptions, maybe replace the first two sentences with something like

> Sending the signature in a query string to an arbitrary URL (even within the correct domain) is not secure as the data can be leaked (e.g. through headers, etc.)

______________________________________________________________________

> and somehow permitting only a fixed callback URL will improve this even more.

Could you elaborate on what you mean by `fixed callback URL` and how it will improve security?

Also, note that NEAR transaction signatures are not plain Ed25519 signatures but Ed25519 signatures of a SHA-256 hash (see [near/nearcore#2835](https://github.com/near/nearcore/issues/2835)). Any protocol that signs anything with NEAR account keys should use the same signature format.

Hence, the final solution we are settling on is to user a restricted payload as shown below.

## Specification

### `verifyOwner`

Signs the message and verifies the owner. Message is not sent to blockchain.

```jsx
interface VerifyOwnerParams {
  // The message requested sign. Defaults to `verify owner` string.
  message?: string;
   //Account ID used to sign the message. Defaults to the first account
  signerId?: string;
  //Public key used to sign the message. Defaults to the public key of the signed in account.

>   publicKey?: PublicKey;

Reviewer 10: Why should these be defaults rather than explicitly specified?

Author: Actually, there's a mistake here. I just updated it with the new interface from the referenced implementation in Wallet Selector.

  // Applicable to browser wallets (e.g. MyNearWallet). This is the callback url once the signing is approved. Defaults to `window.location.href`.
  callbackUrl?: string;
  // Applicable to browser wallets (e.g. MyNearWallet) extra data that will be passed to the callback url once the signing is approved.
  meta?: string;
}

type VerifyOwnerResponse = Promise<void | utils.key_pair.Signature>;

// Browser wallets won't return the signing outcome as they may need to redirect for signing. For MyNearWallet the outcome is passed to the callback url.

```

## Reference Implementation
You can find a demo implementation of this standard using the project below:

> [near/wallet-selector#320](https://github.com/near/wallet-selector/pull/320)

Reviewer 10: The referenced PR was closed and re-opened as https://github.com/near/wallet-selector/pull/391

However it's also merged, so is it still a `demo implementation`? 🤔

Author: Not really. I'll reword that. 
It's only a reference showing the standard being adopted in wallet selector and by wallet developers.

Using an access key restricted in such a way that it cannot send transactions looks like a good temporary solution. It doesn't solve the second problem, though.

Sending the signature in a query string to an arbitrary URL (even within the correct domain) is not secure as the data can be leaked (e.g. through headers, etc). Using URL fragments instead of a query string will improve this (the fragment isn't included in the Referrer), and somehow permitting only a fixed callback URL will improve this even more.

Also, note that NEAR transaction signatures are not plain Ed25519 signatures but Ed25519 signatures of a SHA-256 hash (see [near/nearcore#2835](https://github.com/near/nearcore/issues/2835)). Any protocol that signs anything with NEAR account keys should use the same signature format.

Hence, the final solution we are settling on is to user a restricted payload as shown below.

## Specification

### `verifyOwner`

Signs the message and verifies the owner. Message is not sent to blockchain.

```jsx
interface VerifyOwnerParams {

>   message?: string; // The message requested sign. Defaults to `verify owner` string.

Reviewer 2: could we make message mandatory? it simplifies the wallet-side implementation logic, and makes the devs aware of using a personal message to be signed.

  callbackUrl?: string; // Applicable to browser wallets (e.g. MyNearWallet). This is the callback url once the signing is approved. Defaults to `window.location.href`.
  meta?: string; // Applicable to browser wallets (e.g. MyNearWallet) extra data that will be passed to the callback url once the signing is approved.
}

interface VerifiedOwner {
  accountId: string;
  message: string;
  blockId: string;

>   publicKey: string;

Reviewer 3: Will it be possible to verify that indeed this `publicKey` belongs to this `accountId`?

Reviewer 9: You would need to use the RPC API to know for sure, I think. https://docs.near.org/api/rpc/access-keys#view-access-key-list

Reviewer 3: Not sure if the signing is done by an Access Key. Maybe the first Full Access Key (the one created at account creation) is used for signing? 

May be bit off topic, but verifying that the provided public key belongs to the account is equal amount important as verifying that the signature corresponds to the public key. The source of truth here is the blockchain.

Reviewer 9: It should be a valid full access key, as far as I know. The wallet doing the verifying would use whatever is in their keystore for the requested account ID. I can't think of a way that an end user could know for sure that this was signed by a certain account otherwise.

I think the point of this method is to avoid the blockchain for simple verification of account ownership.

Reviewer 3: You are correct, it is proposed that a newly created access key is to be used for ownership verification.

https://github.com/near/NEPs/blob/6a1403320ad6888065401216f4d56cb7503acd5c/neps/nep-0413.md?plain=1#L22 

> I think the point of this method is to avoid the blockchain for simple verification of account ownership.

Simple verification that can be **trusted**. If we cannot prove that the signature came from the public key owned by the account, anyone can create public key and sign the message.

```js
const ownershipResponse = await walletConnection.account().verifyOwnership({...})

const validSig = await verifySignature(ownershipResponse.signature, ownershipResponse.publicKey)
if (!validSig) {
  throw new Error('invalid signature for the public key, possibly tempered')
}

const trustedAccessKeys = await walletConnection.account().getAccessKeys()
if (!trustedAccessKeys.some(key => isPublicKeyEqual(key, ownershipResponse.publucKey)) {
  throw new Error('the key in the signature cannot be trusted, not found in the account access keys')
} 
```

Reviewer 2: @toteto Checking if a full-access key belongs to a user is simple, check this [example I am working on](https://github.com/gagdiez/near-login/blob/main/server/authenticate/wallet-authenticate.js#L39-#L60).

The point of using a full-access key is that nobody should have access to your account's full-access key, except you. Furthermore, all activity involving a full-access key requires the user to accept it, therefore, the user would be notified of the signature happening, and would be required to accept it.

>   signature: string;

Reviewer 2: Indeed, the signature is encoded as `base64`, @gutsyphilip lets please make sure to include a section in which we explain exactly what each parameter is.
